Rework saros documentation (#899)
saros-project/saros: docs/contribute/documentation.md

title: Documentation Writing
---

> In order to change the documentation you just simply follow the common [development process](processes/development.md)
> and the changes are deployed as soon as they are merged into the master branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to change the documentation, you just simply follow the common [development process](processes/development.md).
The changes are deployed as soon as they are merged into the master branch.
```

* Keep the documentation **short and clear** (e.g. by using lists)
* Avoid new nested link structures and link lists

### Hosting and CI

We use [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) for hosting our documentation.
The static content is automatically published to the `gh-pages` branch. It is not
intended to change the content manually (you have to change the content in the `docs`
directory on the master branch).

## Create and Change Diagrams
In order to create diagrams, we use [mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/).

> Therefore is currently no jekyll integration. Therefore you have to add html tags into your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There currently is no jekyll integration for this, meaning you have to add html tags into your
```

markdown file:
```markdown
<div class="mermaid" markdown="0">
mermaid content...
</div>
```

> Don't forget the `markdown="0"` attribute in order to avoid that Jekyll converts the mermaid code to html.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget the `markdown="0"` attribute in order to avoid Jekyll converting the mermaid code to html.
```

{% endcapture %}
{% include ide-tabs.html eclipse=eclipse intellij=intellij %}

> **Attention:** The major disadvantage of this solution is that we use [jekyll liquid tags](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/).

Reviewer: Is this no longer true? Or have you just removed the hint as we now also have a doc build to check this? Also, does the doc build job still work with this new setup? And does it still work the same or does the new deployment logic lead to issues (like the doc test build deploying the page)?

Author: > Or have you just removed the hint as we now also have a doc build to check this?

Yes, because we check this

> Also, does the doc build job still work with this new setup?

The results on my fork are created with the job. It should work.

> And does it still work the same or does the new deployment logic lead to issues

The action still uses the same triggers (all branches but restricted to changes in the `docs` directory) and all deploy related parts use the condition `if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/master' `.
GitHub Actions skips the step if the condition is not met (as [here](https://github.com/m273d15/saros/runs/573861915?check_suite_focus=true)).

However, the build logic is changed. Instead of using a docker image we install the jekyll dependencies. I tried multiple alternatives (e.g. with the `jekyll/jekyll` image that is cached by default), but it seems like just installing the dependencies is faster. Furthermore,
the used approach has the advantage that dependency versions are the same in CI and the local development environment (as the jekyll version).

* [Eclipse content of this page](?tab=eclipse)

## Compile GitHub Pages
### Compile and Show via Docker

> The whole environment described below is already available in the docker image `starefossen/github-pages`. Use the following

Reviewer: So this is now no longer a viable option? You have to have the required software installed locally?

If so, how much work would it be to replicate the old setup? I was actually quite a fan of only having to start the docker container and then being able to see the modified page locally, meaning I wouldn't have to deal with the build process.
